Data Science with Python - Final Project
Goal: Detect three interesting, nontrivial, and somewhat unexpected finding in a real-world data set of your
choice. Nice data sets can be found on www.kaggle.com and www.data.gov. This project must be done in
group (of two or three people depends on class size). It is meant to be a significant effort to learn by practicing
what you are learning to a real-world data science problem.
• Submission: One submission into Camino per group. (3 files)
o The data set that you used (in zipped format. If after zipped, still more than 100M, use google
drive and share the file)
o The write-up of your final project in the form of a Jupyter Notebook. Make sure that your
notebook runs without any error, assuming that notebook and data set are in the same folder.
o If you use some 3rd party interactive graphic tools(for ex: plotly) to generate graphs, you need
to submit a html version of your Jupyter Notebook too.
• Deadline: You must submit your files before due date at midnight.
• Format and grades (out of 100 pts): your notebook should have the following format:
o (5 pts.) Data set description. Since everyone is using different data, please make sure to
clarify what is in your data set (rows & columns). Points are awarded based on clarity and
brevity.
o (25 pts.) One section on data clean-up/preparation. You will surely need to create new
columns, or clean existing ones, … etc. So in this part you will report all the code of the
cleaning/preparation process. Your data preparation must be entirely performed in the
notebook (and not, for example, in Excel before being imported in the notebook). Points are
awarded based on clarity, brevity, and showing that you can use the techniques learned in
class.
o (60 pts. = 20 pts per finding) Quality of Findings:
§ (5 pts per finding) A brief summary of the finding (ideally, only one sentence)
addressed to the management. Points are awarded based on clarity and
interestingness of the finding
§ (10 pts per finding) A set of tables and/or charts that support the validity of your
finding. You must include at least one chart. Points are awarded based on how
convincing your evidence is.
§ (5 pts per finding) Managerial insights: answer the “So what?” question. That is,
convince the reader that your finding can be used to improve operations and increase
profit. Points are awarded based on clarity, brevity, and how actionable your finding
is.
o (10 pts) The readability, e.g., clarity/format/layout/attention to details of the whole
Jupyter Notebook
Number of findings:
If you submit more than 3 findings, you will be graded only on the first three.
